[RA2 Ch03] 3.2.2.1 Network semantics (#2546)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter03.md

        * [3.2.1.7 Hardware Acceleration](#3217-hardware-acceleration)
        * [3.2.1.8 Scheduling Pods with Non-resilient Applications](#3218-scheduling-pods-with-non-resilient-applications)
    * [3.2.2 Container Networking Services](#322-container-networking-services)
      * [3.2.2.1 Kubernetes Networking Semantics](#3.2.2.1)

>          * [3.2.2.1.1 Built in Kubernetes network functionality](#3.2.2.1.1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * [3.2.2.1.1 Built in Kubernetes Network Functionality](#3.2.2.1.1)
```

>          * [3.2.2.1.2 Multi networking and Orchestration](#3.2.2.1.2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * [3.2.2.1.2 Multiple Networks and Advanced Configurations](#3.2.2.1.2)
```
Maybe "advanced configurations" is not the best phrase, but I'd like to keep word "orchestration" for higher layer in the stack.

[here](../../../ref_model/chapters/chapter05.md#5.1) and hardware profile
features [here](../../../ref_model/chapters/chapter05.md#5.4).

<a name="3.2.2.1"></a>
 ### 3.2.2.1 Kubernetes Networking Semantics

> The support for traditional network orchestration is non existent in Kubernetes as it is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) component. There is no network orchestration API, like Neutron in OpenStack, and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then connect them all together as can be done using Neutron.

Reviewer 2: Why wouldn't a PaaS have the ability to orchestrate what is provided by the underlying IaaS?

Reviewer: > Why wouldn't a PaaS have the ability to orchestrate what is provided by the underlying IaaS?

It would.
I propose we don't mention PaaS here (as per suggestion I just made on line 429).

> The support for traditional network orchestration is non existent in Kubernetes as it is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) component. There is no network orchestration API, like Neutron in OpenStack, and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then connect them all together as can be done using Neutron.

Reviewer: Here I propose to avoid referring to PaaS or using "orchestration":

```suggestion
The support for advanced network configuration management is non existing in Kubernetes proper. Kubernetes is missing advanced networking configuration component of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Compared to OpenStack, there is no network configuration API like Neutron, and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then a way connect them all together like in case of Neutron.
```

> The support for traditional network orchestration is non existing in Kubernetes proper. Kubernetes is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) infrastructure component. There is no orchestration API like Neutron in Openstack and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then a way connect them all together like in case of Neutron.

Reviewer 2: Some suggestions

```suggestion
The support for traditional network orchestration is non existent in Kubernetes as it is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) component. There is no network orchestration API, like Neutron in OpenStack, and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then connect them all together as can be done using Neutron.
```

> The support for traditional network orchestration is non existing in Kubernetes proper. Kubernetes is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) infrastructure component. There is no orchestration API like Neutron in Openstack and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then a way connect them all together like in case of Neutron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The support for advanced network configuration management is non existing in Kubernetes proper. Kubernetes is foremost a Platform as a Service (PaaS) environment and not an Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas) infrastructure component. There is no orchestration API like Neutron in Openstack and there is no way to create L2 networks, instantiate network services such as L3aaS and LBaaS and then a way connect them all together like in case of Neutron.
```

> Kubernetes networking can be divided into two parts, built in network functionality available through the pod's mandatory primary interface and network functionality available through the pod's optional secondary interfaces.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: make clear that the optional secondary is through add-ons
```suggestion
Kubernetes networking can be divided into two parts, built in network functionality available through the pod's mandatory primary interface and network functionality available through the pod's optional add-on secondary interfaces.
```

<a name="3.2.2.1.1"></a>

> #### 3.2.2.1.1 Built in Kubernetes network functionality 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 3.2.2.1.1 Built in Kubernetes Network Functionality 
```

> Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network, and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface, this interface is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. All communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs* and additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion
```suggestion
Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network, and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface that is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. All communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs*, additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.
```

> Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface, this interface is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. All communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs* and additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network, and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface, this interface is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. All communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs* and additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.
```

> Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface, this interface is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. All communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs* and additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes currently only allows for one network, the *cluster* network and one network attachment for each pod. All pods and containers have an *eth0* interface, this interface is created by Kubernetes at pod creation and attached to the cluster network. By default, all communication to and from the pod is done through this interface. To only allow for one interface in a pod removes the need for traditional networking tools such as *VRFs* and additional routes and routing tables inside the pod network namespace.
```

Author: I will update and commit based on your comment in a separate check-in

> The basic semantics of Kubernetes and the information found in manifest defines the connectivity rules and behavior without in principle any references to IP addresses. This has many advantages, it makes it easy to create portable, scalable SW services and network policies for them that are not location aware and therefore can be executed more or less anywhere.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The basic semantics of Kubernetes, and the information found in manifests, defines the connectivity rules and behavior without any references to IP addresses. This has many advantages, it makes it easy to create portable, scalable SW services and network policies for them that are not location aware and therefore can be executed more or less anywhere.
```

Kubernetes built in objects
Pod and workloads | Description
------------------|------------

> [Pod:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) | Pod is a collection of containers that can run on a host. This resource is created by clients and scheduled onto hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Pod:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) | Pod is a collection of containers that can run on a node. This resource is created by clients and scheduled onto nodes.
```

[ReplicaSet:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/) | ReplicaSet ensures that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given time.
[Deployment:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) | Deployment enables declarative updates for Pods and ReplicaSets.
[DaemonSet:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) | A Daemon set ensures that the correct nodes run a copy of a Pod.
[Job:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) | A Job represent a task, it creates one or more Pods and will continue to retry until the expected number of successful completions is reached.

> [CronJob:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) | A CronJob manages time-based Job, namely: once at a specified point in time repeatedly at a specified point in time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[CronJob:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) | A CronJob manages time-based Jobs, namely: once at a specified point in time and repeatedly at a specified point in time
```

[StatefulSet:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) | StatefulSet represents a set of pods with consistent identities. Identities are defined as: network, storage. 

Network objects | Description
----------------|------------
[Ingress:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) | Ingress is a collection of rules that allow inbound connections to reach the endpoints defined by a backend. An Ingress can be configured to give services externally reachable URLs, load balance traffic, terminate SSL, offer name based virtual hosting etc.

> [Service:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) | Service is a named abstraction of software service (for example, MySQL) consisting of local port (for example 3306) that the proxy listens on, and the selector that determines which pods will answer requests sent through the proxy.

Reviewer 2: it doesn't have to be a "software service" -- it can be any application
```suggestion
[Service:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) | Service is a named abstraction of an application running on a set of pods consisting of a local port (for example 3306) that the proxy listens on, and the selector that determines which pods will answer requests sent through the proxy.
```

> [EndpointSlices:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/) | Endpoints and Endpointslices are a collection of endpoints that contains the ip address, v4 and v6, of the pods that represents a service.

Reviewer 2: recursive definition
```suggestion
[EndpointSlices:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/) | Endpoints and Endpointslices are a collection of objects that contain the ip address, v4 and v6, of the pods that represents a service.
```

> [Network Policy:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/) | NetworkPolicy defines which network traffic is allowed to ingress and egress from a set of pods.

Reviewer 2: typo
Do you need to state that it requires a network plugin that implements policies?

```suggestion
[Network Policy:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/) | Network Policy defines which network traffic is allowed to ingress and egress from a set of pods.
```

Example: The manifests for service *my-service* and the *deployment* with the four load balanced pods of type *my-app*

Service:
```
apiVersion: v1 
kind: Service 
metadata: 
        name: my-service
        spec: 
                selector:		
                        app: my-app	
                ports: 
                        - protocol: TCP
                                port: 123
```
Deployment:
```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata: name: my-app-deployment
spec:
        selector:
                matchLabels:
                        app: my-app
                        replicas: 4
                        template:
                                metadata:
                                        labels:
                                                app: my-app
                        spec:
                                containers:
                                        - name: my-app
                                          image: my-app-1.2.3
                                          ports:        
                                          - containerPort: 123 
```

> This is all that is needed to deploy 4 pods/containers that are fronted by a service that performes load balancing. The *Deployment* will ensure that there are always four pods of type *my-app* available. the *Deployment* is responsible for the full lifecycle management of the pods, this includes in service update/upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion
```suggestion
This is all that is needed to deploy 4 replicas of the *my-app* pod, fronted by the *my-service* service that performs load balancing. The *Deployment* is responsible for the full lifecycle management of the pods including the state and updates/upgrades. Thus, the *Deployment* will ensure that there are always four pods of type *my-app* available. 
```

> None of this is of much help however when implementing network service functions such as VNFs/CNFs that requires multi networking and network orchestration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of this is of much help however when implementing network service functions such as VNFs/CNFs that operate on multiple networks and require advanced networking configurations.
```

<a name="3.2.2.1.2"></a>

> #### 3.2.2.1.2 Multi networking and Orchestration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 3.2.2.1.2 Multiple Networks and Advanced Configurations
```

> Kubernetes does currently not in itself support multi networks, pod multi network attachments or network orchestration. This is supported by using a [*Container Network Interface*](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) multiplexer such as [Multus](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Natively Kubernetes does not currently support multi networks, pod multi network attachments or network orchestration. These capabilities are supported by using a [*Container Network Interface*](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) multiplexer such as [Multus](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni).
```

> A considerable effort is being invested to add better network support to Kubernetes, all such activities are coordinated through the kubernetes [*Network Special Interest Group*](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network) and it's sub groups. One such group, the [*Network Plumbing Working Group*](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/community) has produced the [Kubernetes Network Custom Resource Definition De-facto Standard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ny03h6IDVy_e_vmElOqR7UdTPAG_RNydhVE1Kx54kFQ/edit). This document describes how secondary networks can be defined and attached to pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A considerable effort is being invested to add network secondary interfaces support to Kubernetes. All such activities are coordinated through the Kubernetes [*Network Special Interest Group*](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network) and it's sub groups. One such group, the [*Network Plumbing Working Group*](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/community) has produced the [Kubernetes Network Custom Resource Definition De-facto Standard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ny03h6IDVy_e_vmElOqR7UdTPAG_RNydhVE1Kx54kFQ/edit). This document describes how secondary networks can be defined and attached to pods.
```

This defacto standard defines among other things
Definition | Description
------------------|------------

> Kubernetes Cluster-Wide default network | A network to which all pods are attached following the current behavior and requirements of Kubernetes, this done by attaching the *eth0* interface to the pod namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes Cluster-Wide default network | A network to which all pods are attached following the current behavior and requirements of Kubernetes, this done by attaching the primary *eth0* interface to the pod namespace.
```

Network Attachment | A means of allowing a pod to directly communicate with a given logical or physical network. Typically (but not necessarily) each attachment takes the form of a kernel network interface placed into the pod’s network namespace. Each attachment may result in zero or more IP addresses being assigned to the pod.

> NetworkAttachmentDefinition object | This defines resource object that describes how to attach a pod to a logical or physical network, the annotation name is *"k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks"*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NetworkAttachmentDefinition object | This defines a resource object that describes how to attach a pod to a logical or physical network; the annotation name is *"k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks"*.
```

Network Attachment Selection Annotation | Selects one or more networks that a pod should be attached to.

Example: Define three network attachments and attach the three networks to a pod.

Green network
```
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name:green-network
spec:
  config: '{
    "cniVersion": "0.3.0",
    "type": "plugin-A",
    "vlan": "1234"
  }'
)
```
Blue network
```
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name:blue-network
spec:
  config: '{
    "cniVersion": "0.3.0",
    "type": "plugin-A",
    "vlan": "3456"
  }'
)
```
Red network
```
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name:red-network
spec:
  config: '{
    "cniVersion": "0.3.0",
    "type": "plugin-B",
    "knid": "123456789"
  }'
)
```
Pod my-pod
```
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  namespace: my-namespace
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: blue-network, green-network, red-network
```

> This is enough to support basic network orchestration, it is possible to map up L2 networks from an external network infrastructure into a Kubernetes system and attach pods to these networks. The support for IPv4 and IPv6 address management is however limited. The address must be assigned by the CNI plugin as part of the pod creation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is enough to support basic network configuration management, it is possible to map up L2 networks from an external network infrastructure into a Kubernetes system and attach pods to these networks. The support for IPv4 and IPv6 address management is however limited. The address must be assigned by the CNI plugin as part of the pod creation process.
```

> This is enough to support basic network configuration management, it is possible to map up L2 networks from an external network infrastructure into a Kubernetes system and attach pods to these networks. The support for IPv4 and IPv6 address management is however limited. The address must be assigned by the CNI plugin as part of the pod creation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is enough to support basic network configuration management. It is possible to map up L2 networks from an external network infrastructure into a Kubernetes system and attach pods to these networks. The support for IPv4 and IPv6 address management is however limited. The address must be assigned by the CNI plugin as part of the pod creation process.
```
